Add bar chart widget file (#30739)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/dashboards/widgets/bar_chart.md

---
title: Bar Chart Widget
widget_type: bar_chart
further_reading:
- link: "/dashboards/graphing_json/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Building Dashboards using JSON"
- link: "/dashboards/widgets/top_list"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Top List Widget"
- link: "/dashboards/widgets/pie_chart"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Pie Chart Widget"
- link: "/dashboards/guide/context-links/#overview/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Context Links"
---

## Overview

{{< img src="/dashboards/widgets/bar_chart/bar_chart.png" alt="Bar chart widget example visualization" style="width:100%;" >}}

> The Bar Chart widget is part of the same data family as the Top List and Pie Chart widgets, using categorical axes rather than temporal axes like timeseries bar graphs. It displays categorical data using vertical bars, allowing you to compare values across different categories or groups. Unlike the horizontal top list widget, the bar chart uses a vertical orientation which is particularly useful for dashboards with wide and short aspect ratios, or when you want to focus on value comparison rather than ranking.

Reviewer: small nit: i wanted to note that it shares the same data as the treemap as well

how is "same data family as the Top List, Treemap and Pie Chart widgets"

The Bar Chart widget is part of the same data family as the Top List, Treemap, and Pie Chart widgets, using categorical axes rather than temporal axes like timeseries bar graphs. It displays categorical data using vertical bars, allowing you to compare values across different categories or groups. Unlike the horizontal top list widget, the bar chart uses a vertical orientation which is particularly useful for dashboards with wide and short aspect ratios, or when you want to focus on value comparison rather than ranking.

Use the Bar Chart when visual comparison across categories matters more than reading exact tag values. Use the Top List to prioritize label readability (such as long tag names) or need a ranked list format.

## Setup

### Configuration

1. Select from the available data sources.
2. Configure the query, see the following resources for more information:
    * Metrics: See the [querying ][1] documentation to configure a metric query.
    * Events: See the [log search][2] documentation to configure a log event query.
3. (Optional) Modify query with a [formula][3].
4. Customize your graph.

### Options
#### Display mode

> The bar chart widget supports multiple levels of grouping with stacked visualization, enabling you to break down data by multiple dimensions. You can choose between **Stacked** mode to show grouped data as layered bars, or **Flat** mode to display individual bars for each group.
> 
> - **Stacked mode**: Shows grouped data as layered bars within each category.
> - **Flat mode**: Displays individual bars for each group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The bar chart widget supports multiple levels of grouping with stacked visualization, enabling you to break down data by multiple dimensions.

- **Stacked mode**: Shows grouped data as layered bars within each category.
- **Flat mode**: Displays individual bars for each group.
```
I don't think you need to repeat the stacked/flat mode definitions here 🙂 Also, I saw these after the initial configuration step. I'm not sure why "customize your graph" is a separate step from these display options?

---
title: Bar Chart Widget
widget_type: bar_chart
further_reading:
- link: "/dashboards/graphing_json/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Building Dashboards using JSON"
- link: "/dashboards/widgets/top_list"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Top List Widget"
- link: "/dashboards/widgets/pie_chart"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Pie Chart Widget"
- link: "/dashboards/guide/context-links/#overview/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Context Links"
---

## Overview

{{< img src="/dashboards/widgets/bar_chart/bar_chart_viz.png" alt="Bar chart widget example visualization" style="width:100%;" >}}

> The Bar Chart widget is part of the same data family as the Top List and Pie Chart widgets, using categorical axes rather than temporal axes like timeseries bar graphs. It displays categorical data using vertical bars, allowing you to compare values across different categories or groups. Unlike the horizontal top list widget, the bar chart uses a vertical orientation which is particularly useful for dashboards with wide and short aspect ratios, or when you want to focus on value comparison rather than ranking.

Author: @beccajellinek 
```suggestion
The Bar Chart widget is part of the same data family as the Top List and Pie Chart widgets, using categorical axes rather than temporal axes like timeseries bar graphs. It displays categorical data using vertical bars, allowing you to compare values across different categories or groups. Unlike the horizontal top list widget, which does not have a formal axis or gridlines, the bar chart uses a vertical (y-axis) orientation. This is useful for dashboards with wide and short aspect ratios, or when you want to focus on value comparison rather than ranking.
```

> The Bar Chart widget is part of the same data family as the Top List and Pie Chart widgets, using categorical axes rather than temporal axes like timeseries bar graphs. It displays categorical data using vertical bars, allowing you to compare values across different categories or groups. Unlike the horizontal top list widget, the bar chart uses a vertical orientation which is particularly useful for dashboards with wide and short aspect ratios, or when you want to focus on value comparison rather than ranking.

Author: After our conversation, I will leave the y-axis info out of the PR for now, but open to adding this as a note in the future if customers are confused about this feature!
